My mom has always told me
that I’ve always been
a caregiver ever since I was a little girl;
it was just part of who I was.
I don’t like to see people suffer;
it’s very difficult for me.
I remember
that when I first started working as a nurse,
I would always cry.
I cried—
Literally I cried every day
that I had to go to work.
Not only was I overwhelmed
being a new nurse
but also
I was battling my depression.
I was feeling so sad.
I really needed Jehovah’s help
to figure out what was going on with me.
And I remember
that the 2009 article
about depression came out.
And I realized:
‘OK, Jehovah, you’re telling me
‘this is what I have.
‘So now that I realize I have this,
I’ve got to figure out how I can manage it.’
So I changed my eating habits.
I started exercising a lot more.
I realized that exercising
and eating healthy really, really did help.
Also, I made a journal.
And I made different sections
of the different aspects of my depression
that I dealt with.
In each section, I would put scriptures;
I would put articles.
And the illustrations, the pictures,
they speak a lot without saying anything.
Jehovah hears us.
Jehovah cares.
Exercising, changing my diet,
the publications, journaling
—that was my lifeline.
That really actually helped me
for a long time.
But it came to a point where it
stopped working as effectively.
I remember getting ready,
dressing for the meeting,
and I was fine.
I was getting dressed for the meeting,
about to walk out the door, but I couldn’t.
There was this overwhelming fear
that came over me
and an overwhelming sadness
that came over me.
And I just lost it; I just started crying.
I couldn’t get myself together.
It was bad.
It got really bad;
my depression got really bad.
So it was very difficult for me to approach
the brothers to ask them for help.
But at that time, I knew that if I didn’t,
that something bad would happen.
So I decided: ‘You know what?
I’m going to ask
for a shepherding call with my brothers,’
because I’d never talked about my depression
with the elders at all.
This was my first time speaking with them.
And there was one brother, one of the elders,
who also battled depression.
And he suggested,
“Have you thought about
seeking medical help?”
Seeking professional help
was something I never wanted to do.
I thought that I didn’t need to do it,
but sometimes there comes a point
where you need additional help
and what you’re doing is not enough.
In this world, they make you feel
that it’s a bad thing,
that depression is a dirty word,
or that seeking medical help
is something that you don’t do.
But I realized also that seeking medical help
was part of my being able
to worship Jehovah effectively.
That’s me doing my part.
Not everyone needs to take that step,
but for me, this is what I need to do.
And I’m glad I did it because of the fact
that I’ve never
ever felt this good
in my life.
At first, it started with one floor,
then it went to another floor,
and then the whole entire hospital.
Every floor had COVID patients.
That was some of the hardest nursing
that I’ve ever done in my life
in all of my years of nursing.
And we lost a lot of good nurses
who were right in the trenches with me
who were in there doing their best.
We lost a lot of good people.
Even though I was on medication to help me,
it still didn’t take the depression away.
You’re like: ‘What’s the point?
‘I can’t save anyone.
I can’t, I can’t help anyone.’
It was devastating.
It truly, truly was devastating.
And at those times I just cry to Jehovah,
talk to Jehovah about how I’m feeling,
and just ask for his peace
to help me to deal.
When I’m able to help people
who are battling depression,
I feel like Jehovah is using me in that way,
and it makes me happy
that I can be of use to Jehovah.
It’s good to feel—
It’s so nice to feel good again,
to feel happy again,
to be able to smile,
to be able to take in enjoyment
in the small things,
you know, in Jehovah’s creation
—and, you know, just be happy that I’m alive.
So yeah,
yeah.